=== PAGE 1 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                    IELTS  Listening  Test 2 - Full Transcript                    
                                                                                  
       Answer-bearing words and phrases are highlighted in yellow. This transcript was prepared from the uploaded full audio and manually cleaned
       against the supplied test questions and answer key; minor punctuation or non-answer wording may differ slightly from the recording.
                                                                                  
       PART  1 - Watertown Community Centre Programmes                            
       NARRATOR: Section 1. You will hear a man phoning a community centre to find out about the programmes they have
       on offer. First, you have some time to look at Questions 1 to 6.           
                                                                                  
       NARRATOR: You will see that there is an example that has been done for you. On this occasion only, the
       conversation relating to this will be played first.                        
       WOMAN: Good afternoon. Watertown Community Centre registration desk, Maria speaking. How can I help you?
       MAN: Good afternoon. I'm calling about registering my family in some of your programmes.
                                                                                  
       NARRATOR: The name of the person on the registration desk is Maria, so Maria has been written in the space. Now
       we shall begin. You should answer the questions as you listen because you will not hear the recording a second time.
       Listen carefully and answer Questions 1 to 6.                              
       WOMAN: Good afternoon. Watertown Community Centre registration desk, Maria speaking. How can I help you?
                                                                                  
       MAN: Good afternoon. I'm calling about registering my family in some of your programmes.
       WOMAN: Certainly. Which ones?                                              
       MAN: Well, let's start with me. I want to take a yoga class. Can you tell me about the different classes you offer?
                                                                                  
       WOMAN: Well, our Modern Yoga class is great if you're looking for a real workout, or if you want to get rid of some
       excess weight. You'll definitely sweat in this class.                      
       MAN: Sounds good.                                                          
                                                                                  
       WOMAN: Our Yoga and More class combines the best in yoga and Pilates to strengthen a person's core muscles.
       MAN: Would that help me with my sore back?                                 
       WOMAN: Yes. A lot of people find it helps. We also have our Original Yoga class. If you're more of a novice, I would
       recommend that. It's a good choice for beginners.                          
                                                                                  
       MAN: Thanks. How long are the classes?                                     
       WOMAN: The classes used to be 45 minutes long, but we've added ten minutes of relaxation at the end, so all the
       classes are 55 minutes long.                                               
                                                                                  
       MAN: Is there anything I need to bring?                                    
       WOMAN: We provide towels if you want to have a shower afterwards, but for the class you need to bring your own
       mat.                                                                       
       MAN: Okay, sounds good. Can I ask about ballet classes? My daughter loves ballet and she's been doing it for six
       years.                                                                     
                                                                                  
       WOMAN: Then we've got some advanced dance classes. We offer a class on Wednesday which concentrates on
       complicated routines and jumps.                                            
       WOMAN: We also have a class on Thursdays which I'm sure she'd be interested in because they're getting ready for
       a competition.                                                             
                                                                                  
       MAN: Okay, I'll tell her.                                                  
       NARRATOR: Before you hear the rest of the conversation, you have some time to look at Questions 7 to 10. Now
       listen and answer Questions 7 to 10.                                       
                                                                                  
       WOMAN: Anything else?                                                      
       MAN: Yes. My son wants to play soccer. He's never done it before.          
       WOMAN: Our Rookies team would be a perfect fit for him. We don't focus on rules. We just try to help children
       develop the basic skills in a friendly environment.                        
                                                                                  
       MAN: Okay. What day is that?                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 2 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
       WOMAN: They play on Thursdays at five. Does that work for you?             
       MAN: Yes, that's perfect. Do I need to provide anything? Does he need his own ball?
       WOMAN: No, that's all taken care of. All we do request is that the parents take turns providing a snack for the team to
       share at half-time. You'll be given a schedule for when it's your turn.    
                                                                                  
       MAN: Okay, great.                                                          
       WOMAN: Are you interested in anything else?                                
                                                                                  
       MAN: Actually, yes. My wife wanted me to ask you about your aerobics classes.
       WOMAN: Yes. We have them sixteen times a week at various times. The evening classes are really popular, so I'd
       recommend she come before work if she can.                                 
       MAN: Are all the aerobics classes the same?                                
                                                                                  
       WOMAN: We have many different classes. For example, some emphasize using weights to improve muscle tone. In
       other classes, they do high-impact aerobics to keep the heart strong.      
       MAN: Okay. Can I register my family? My name's Bob Hansen.                 
                                                                                  
       WOMAN: Okay. I can sign your family up, and the places will be held for twenty-four hours.
       MAN: Okay. How do I pay? Can I make a payment over the phone?              
       WOMAN: You can pay for this online by credit or debit card, or you can pay at reception.
                                                                                  
       MAN: Okay, I'd like to pay in person. Can I get a tour of the facilities while I'm there?
       WOMAN: Yes, come by during business hours. The cost will be three hundred and sixty dollars for your entire family
       for twelve weeks.                                                          
                                                                                  
       MAN: You've been most helpful. Thanks.                                     
       WOMAN: You're welcome.                                                     
       NARRATOR: That is the end of Section 1. You now have half a minute to check your answers.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 3 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
       PART  2 - The Royal Nature Park                                            
       NARRATOR: Section 2. You will hear a podcast about a famous park in Canada. First, you have some time to look at
       Questions 11 to 14. Now listen carefully and answer Questions 11 to 14.    
                                                                                  
       GUIDE: Good afternoon and welcome to this podcast on the Royal Nature Park. It's a historical park in Canada that
       was home to First Nations people and early settlers many years ago.        
       GUIDE: First Nations groups settled in this area around the lake over six hundred years ago, and the discovery of
       corn residue at the lowest level of the lake led scientists to believe that corn was once cultivated in the area by
       the First Nations people.                                                  
                                                                                  
       GUIDE: This lake, now in the centre of the park, has varying depths and temperatures. Parts of the lake are so deep
       that there is virtually no oxygen and very little sunlight. This means that plants and fish have trouble surviving there.
       GUIDE: The only natural residents of the lake area are large turtles that lie on rocks at the lake edge. Visitors are
       asked not to disturb them, although it's fine to take photographs.         
       GUIDE: The park has a replica of a First Nations village from long ago. This includes reconstructed longhouses,
       where several families lived together. We built them using historical pictures and archaeological findings so that
                                                                                  
       they resemble the houses from more than six hundred years ago.             
       GUIDE: They're called longhouses mainly because of their shape: they're long rather than high. There were benches
       on both sides of the house which were used as beds. People used animal furs to keep warm at night, and they built
       fire pits inside for warmth and cooking, especially during the winter.     
       GUIDE: The houses were home to a number of families. All members of the families helped to build a house and
       contributed to the daily work, including children.                         
                                                                                  
       NARRATOR: Before you hear the rest of the podcast, you have some time to look at Questions 15 to 20. Now listen
       and answer Questions 15 to 20.                                             
       GUIDE: There are many things to do and see during the year at Royal Nature Park.
                                                                                  
       GUIDE: During the spring, treat your taste buds to an event called Sweet Water Season. At this festival, visitors can
       see how the early settlers tapped maple trees and boiled the sap to make a traditional sweet food. Samples are
       available for those who wish to taste it.                                  
       GUIDE: Another favourite event is our Season of the Harvest. During this programme, visitors pick produce,
       including apples from the trees and vegetables from the fields. Early settlers relied on these crops for the winter. You
       can even purchase some of the fresh fruit and vegetables in the gift shop. 
       GUIDE: Join the Fall into Nature festival for a special live animal show involving hawks and other birds of prey.
       During the display, watch our trained staff work with these creatures. Visitors can even have the thrill of a wild bird
                                                                                  
       landing on their arm.                                                      
       GUIDE: Our Moccasin Time event is held regularly around the time of the full moon. It starts at eleven p.m. and takes
       about an hour to cover the park on foot, so you'll need to bring a flashlight. In other words, you'll take a walk at night.
       If you listen carefully, you may hear owls calling to each other as they hunt for food in the dark.
       GUIDE: In September, try our Hide and Seek Trail. Take a tour around the lake and you'll see carvings of
       endangered species on fallen trees and logs. These represent wildlife in the area, including bears, birds and reptiles
       which are rapidly disappearing. See if you can identify the animal in each sculpture.
                                                                                  
       GUIDE: In the snowy season, join a group and try cross-country skiing on Pine Ridge Way. You'll follow winter trails
       through frosted pine trees and over snow-covered hills. There are many paths, so watch for the arrows on the trees to
       get back to the visitors' centre and get warm.                             
       NARRATOR: That is the end of Section 2. You now have half a minute to check your answers.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 4 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
       PART  3 - Varroa Mite and Types of Bees                                    
       NARRATOR: Section 3. You will hear two researchers comparing their research on different types of bees. First, you
       have some time to look at Questions 21 to 25. Now listen carefully and answer Questions 21 to 25.
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 1: I had a chance to look at your research yesterday. Is any of this relevant to my research?
       SPEAKER 2: Yes, at least one aspect. My main research interest is the European honey bee and the problems facing
       it.                                                                        
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 1: Yes, I've heard about the Varroa mite, but I don't know much about it.
       SPEAKER 2: Well, the mite wiped out a large proportion of the European honey bee population in North America
       back in the 1990s. Fortunately, it hasn't caused the same problem here.    
       SPEAKER 1: It sounds like such a little creature.                          
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 2: It certainly is. It's like a little hitchhiker. When a bee lands on a flower, the mite can get off and wait
       there until another bee comes along. It then climbs onto that bee.         
       SPEAKER 1: Right.                                                          
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 2: The mite then hitches a ride back to the hive with its new host.
       SPEAKER 1: So the mite actually sneaks inside the hive on top of the bee?  
       SPEAKER 2: That's right. Once inside the hive, it dives into a honeycomb cell and hides at the bottom. That's where
       the queen bee lays an egg.                                                 
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 1: I'm interested to know why the bees don't detect the mite.      
       SPEAKER 2: That's the interesting part. It uses the honey to cover its own smell, so it isn't detected. Then it feeds on
       the blood of the bee larva.                                                
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 1: So this happens while the baby bee is developing?               
       SPEAKER 2: Exactly. The mite's reproductive cycle takes place inside the cell. When that's finished, it leaves.
       SPEAKER 1: It sounds like a clever enemy. But why does it have such a devastating effect on bee populations?
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 2: Well, it leaves the bee debilitated and also infected with a virus that can spread amongst the colony, so
       the population can die out.                                                
       SPEAKER 1: That could have a devastating effect on agriculture.            
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 2: Yes. The worrying thing is that we need to find ways of increasing bee populations.
       NARRATOR: Before you hear the rest of the discussion, you have some time to look at Questions 26 to 30. Now
       listen and answer Questions 26 to 30.                                      
       SPEAKER 1: Well, as we can combine my research on native bees with yours, perhaps we should try putting together
       a research proposal and find a way of increasing bee populations.          
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 2: That would be great. Let's start with the European bumblebee. There was talk recently about bringing
       them into this country.                                                    
       SPEAKER 1: Yes, but the problem is that the European bumblebee has a tendency to spread weeds to new areas.
       We don't want to introduce another environmental problem.                  
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 2: True. What about the Blue Banded Bee? It could be useful to farmers.
       SPEAKER 1: That's one of the challenges we face, because not much is known about it yet. There hasn't been a
       lot of research on the species.                                            
       SPEAKER 2: Then bringing in Africanised bees would be disastrous.          
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 1: Definitely. The Africanised bee was introduced to South America because it was a good honey
       producer, but what people didn't realise was how aggressive it could be - it may attack almost anything that moves.
       SPEAKER 2: Speaking of honey producers, the Australian Stingless Bee is quite good.
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 1: Yes, although it doesn't produce as much honey as some other species. The main drawback with
       stingless bees is that they're very sensitive to temperature. They won't survive if it gets too cold, so they need a warm
       climate and aren't really suited to the colder southern parts of Australia.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 5 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 2: And what about the Canadian Leafcutter Bee?                     
       SPEAKER 1: I think that one has a lot of potential for farmers. It's a gentle, hard-working bee. They've been imported
       to pollinate lucerne or alfalfa crops. At the moment, production here is much lower than in North America, where they
       use these leafcutter bees.                                                 
       SPEAKER 2: So why don't we import more of them?                            
                                                                                  
       SPEAKER 1: Research shows that the bees have to be imported in very limited numbers and carefully checked for
       pests and diseases before they're released. The drawback is that the numbers are still too few to make much
       difference to farmers' crop yields. It takes time to build up the population.
       NARRATOR: That is the end of Section 3. You now have half a minute to check your answers.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 6 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
       PART  4 - After Action Review Process                                      
       NARRATOR: Section 4. You will hear an expert giving a lecture to business students about how to review a project.
       First, you have some time to look at Questions 31 to 40. Now listen carefully and answer Questions 31 to 40.
                                                                                  
       LECTURER: In our last lecture, we looked at managing a project through to completion. Today, we're going to be
       looking at a way of judging just how successful your project has been. It's called the After Action Review process.
       LECTURER: A typical project review is completed long after the project is finished, and so it's too late to change the
       outcome. Wouldn't it be better to evaluate right along the way, so you can learn from mistakes at each stage and
       improve on what you've done?                                               
                                                                                  
       LECTURER: It was for this reason that the army devised the After Action Review process as a way for everyone to
       learn quickly from experiences in the field.                               
       LECTURER: I've heard so much about the benefits of using an After Action Review. Firstly, it's not just limited to really
       large or final projects. It's useful for all sorts of things. For example, you might want to use it following a staff meeting
       or any other regular function.                                             
       LECTURER: In fact, it's an extremely effective tool to use following a safety incident. It can reveal important lessons
                                                                                  
       so that accidents can be avoided in the future.                            
       LECTURER: So you can see that this would definitely be a positive step for any business. An added benefit of the
       review is that, because the focus is on learning, it really improves communication within working groups.
       LECTURER: So let's have a look at what an After Action Review is. It's a structured session or meeting that follows an
       activity. It focuses on the results and outcomes and the reasons for them. 
                                                                                  
       LECTURER: It encourages active participation among the team and, very importantly, emphasises how vital it is for
       the team to trust one another.                                             
       LECTURER: Here are some of the key elements to remember when you're conducting an After Action Review. Where
       possible, it's really good to have an external person to facilitate the process. This helps to direct the discussion and
       also prevents a stronger member of the review from dominating the others.  
                                                                                  
       LECTURER: An After Action Review requires active involvement from all. One way to encourage everyone to get
       involved is to ask people to put their comments in writing. If they're given the opportunity to do this, they may feel less
       intimidated by other members of the group.                                 
       LECTURER: Another key element is to be aware of the type of questions you pose. Don't direct the discussion
       towards what you think is the perfect answer. Always ask open questions - for example, 'What would you do
       differently next time?' - and make sure that every member of the team has the chance to speak.
       LECTURER: It's also important to make sure you gather the specific recommendations made by everyone. But don't
                                                                                  
       forget to pass this information on to non-participating team leaders, as they may take on learning from the experience.
       This is how After Action Reviews contribute to organisation-wide learning and improvement.
       LECTURER: However, if no one follows up on these written recommendations, then the process is wasted. Instead,
       you should ensure that the ideas from the Action Review are incorporated into the business by organising staff
       training around them.                                                      
       LECTURER: And finally, the last thing you want is to find that you can't get through everything because you've been
       talking too long. Make sure you keep a constant eye on the time. An After Action Review is not something that you
       should ever plan on conducting in two sessions.                            
                                                                                  
       LECTURER: Before we move on to look at the next type of project review, the implementation review, are there any
       questions?                                                                 
       NARRATOR: That is the end of Section 4. You now have half a minute to check your answers.
                                                                                  
       NARRATOR: That is the end of the Listening test. You now have ten minutes to transfer your answers to the Listening
       answer sheet.                                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  